The king of love, my shepherd is, is that not the sweetest, most powerful song?
As we've learned that, and I pray this morning, just as we sing from song 23, right there, that God will lead us beside good pastors and still waters.
So we open the Word of God together, again this morning, with the people whom I dearly love, God's bound us together, and we eat from the pastors of His Word.
The title of today's sermon is the great hoax of spiritual seduction, part two.
The great hoax of spiritual seduction, part two, we walked through the first three verses last Sunday and we picked back up this morning with verses four through 11.
We've seen especially recently in 2 Corinthians that false teachers are ravaging the church
And they're playing a very sick game of spiritual one upmanship, trying to outperform the other in their piety in the worst of ways.
Many have repented, but there's still a faction that remains to tear this church apart.
And even in our own day, we have widespread confusion in the church.
We see a vying for influence and platforms in our culture.
because it is a very expensive business to pay for the opportunity to monopolize your attention and to garner your thinking and to change it.
And so just as we need today, Paul is warning the church in chapter 11 against false propaganda and to give discernment and judgment of truth.
Look with me in 2 Corinthians.
If you'll turn back to chapter 10, verses 7 through 11, I won't to give just
A very quick reminder of the road that we have already covered.
Paul has been accused of being a boaster, of being overconfident, even authoritarian toward the church, as one who would seek to frighten, even destroy the church.
And we saw in 2 Corinthians 10, starting in verse 7, five aspects of authority that Paul displays in the church.
We saw authority that's securing Christ and not selfish and motive in verse 7.
authority in verse 8 that is assertive and not arrogant.
In the latter part of verse 8, authority that builds up and doesn't tear down.
In verses 9 through 10, authority that puts terror in your enemies and loving respect in your people.
And in verse 11 of chapter 10, authority that is spoken and acted upon.
And then if you'll look with me in verses 12 through 18, Paul laid out the measure of a man and his ministry
which sets up what is before us in the past is this morning.
In verse 12, we saw that we don't measure ourselves by those who commend themselves.
In verses 13 and 14, we don't boast beyond the limits that God has allotted to us.
In verses 15 and 16, we don't take credit for the work that others have done.
And in verses 17 and 18, we boast in the Lord and we live for His approval.
If you'll turn back over to chapter 11 with man, verses one through three, last week we saw Paul's fundamental concern in the church.
And in summary, his concern chiefly is that the church would be distracted from and even deceived in their spiritual devotion to Jesus Christ.
We've already seen, if you'll look with me, number one, you have been committed to Christ's church.
We saw last week in verse 1 of chapter 11, I wish you would bear with me in a little foolishness.
Do bear with me.
A humor me for a bit as I endure in this charade that I would never have to enter, but yet I do.
And he says in verse 2, for I feel a divine jealousy for you since I betrothed you.
I promise to marry you to one husband, to present you as a pure virgin to Christ.
I preach the gospel to you.
I planted the church here in Corinth in Acts 18.
I've shepherded your souls, laying my life down for you.
Not only am I bound to you, more importantly, I have bound you covenantally to God.
God has bound you to Himself through Jesus Christ.
It will be faithful to your head so that Paul says I can then present you before Him in all purity.
Look with me in verse three, we saw secondly, you are being deceived in your devotion.
I believe today the church in many ways is being deceived.
Paul says, but I am afraid that as the serpent deceived Eve by his cunning, your thoughts, the ones he said in chapter 10, we are to take captive and make them submit to the knowledge of God.
Well, now your thoughts will be led astray from a sincere or a single-hearted, minded, and pure or blameless devotion to Jesus Christ.
For as there are no greater concerns in the world today, then most fundamentally the concern laid out before us, right here in verse three, which is why this puts before us our verse of the month as a church.
So we saw last week how the woman in the garden entertained doubts about the certainty, the clarity, the goodness, the sufficiency of God's Word.
And the serpent aimed this assault right at the very character of God so that the woman and then later with the man would basically assert themselves as if you know better than God himself as to what's good for you.
We saw how the New Testament explains this in 1 Timothy 2, 12, that the woman not the man was first deceived.
And so the very one that God named life, or Eve, who God used as an instrument to bring life into the world, would be the very one that would be deceived and become an instrument of death.
And so it would be her, 1 Timothy 2 says,
that God would use to be the bearer of life once again, removing the stigma of death, bringing the life of Jesus Christ into the world to forgive us of our sins, being the bearer through her womb of life.
Titus 2 says, being the one who would nurture spiritual life and discipleship through the local church.
And so God would reverse the curse, but even then, as we read in Judges chapter 2,
The temptation would be that as God's bride, the church would continue to flirt with the ways of the world and walk in the ways of the Gentiles and a generation would arise who neither knew the Lord nor the works he had done for Israel.
And friends, this is the fight of the Christian life.
The point that we saw last week is that woman in particular in the garden is made by God and she should be honored
And she should be highly esteemed and respected.
But she is created as a nurturer.
She's created as a consensus builder because she brings families together.
She nurtures families.
And yet just as those emotions are intended for good, Satan can deceive her and manipulate those emotions into a sort of empathy, as is called often wrongly today.
in order to begin to play into deception by playing on her emotions so that she's led by her emotions rather than truth, rather than subduing those emotions so that they would come under the leadership of truth.
And so this is what happens in the garden from the very beginning.
This is the very illustration that God's using.
Two dual truths that are very, very important.
as we see woman as the weaker vessel to be led and protected by her head.
First of all, we saw that that ordinarily it is not good for a woman to be without a head.
She was created for a head, a head in her husband, a head through which the church can step in in her family.
Depending on the situation, a woman was created to be under headship.
And yet at the same time, it is also not good for men to be alone.
You take a young boy, put him in a college dorm by himself and tell him to have at it for four years.
Don't be surprised at the outcome.
It's not good for men to be alone.
God created the two for one another and ultimately the point that Paul is driving at in 2 Corinthians 11,
is that she needs His direction and leadership.
He needs her help and nurture, and Jesus Christ gives us this.
As we live as His bride, we are His bride under His headship.
And yet, ladies and gentlemen, brothers and sisters in Christ, we are so easily deceived.
And you, dear friend, are not exempt.
As the bride of Christ, we are so easily
seduced.
And we are seduced into thinking that Christ is not a good head and that there is another better head that we would put ourselves under and submit to, another who could provide for us better.
Or maybe we begin to seduce ourselves into thinking that we would do a better job being our own head.
And so just as the woman came out from under the headship of man and the man refused to rule
and govern his home, and yet we, as the bride of Christ, so easily walk out from under his headship, and we are so easily deceived when we do.
We isolate ourselves, and Paul is so concerned about this matter in his church that she would be lured away from the sincere and pure
devotion to Jesus Christ.
Friends, this is the beauty of the body of Christ as we fan the flame in one another.
As we point one another's faces toward truth in the heavenly Jerusalem and as we work out these things together.
So she's being deceived by these cunning hugsters in the church and basically what Paul is saying in 2 Corinthians 11 is that church
You have forgotten, you have been covenantally bound in marriage to Jesus Christ and hear me out.
This is not an open marriage.
And yet they're treating it as an open marriage just as we read in Judges chapter two.
The language bear with me is that they would whore themselves after the nations.
And God is so jealous for his bride because she was made for him.
We pick up, if you look with me in 2 Corinthians 11 verse 4.
Thirdly, I want you to notice, not only as we've already seen, have you been committed to Christ and you're being deceived in your devotion?
Paul tells the church, thirdly, you desperately need discernment in your judgment.
Now, I don't know how this will apply to your life.
I just walk through the next text and trust that the Holy Spirit will apply it as he will.
Look with me in verse four.
The Bible says, for if someone comes and proclaims another Jesus, then the one we proclaimed, or if you receive a different spirit from the one you received,
And here's the third of the trio.
Or if you accepted different gospel from the one you accepted, hear the dripping sarcasm.
Where are my sarcastic brothers and sisters in Christ this morning?
You put up with it readily enough.
Just as we saw his fear in verse three,
they would be led astray.
Here specifically is how they are being led astray.
If someone comes and proclaims a different Jesus than the one we proclaimed, a different spirit than the one you've already received, a different gospel than the one that you've already accepted.
It almost, if you look with me in verse four, seems to be hypothetical.
for if, until you realize that this is not hypothetical, it's actual you put up with present tense, actively happening.
It's interesting that they are proclaiming Jesus, a spirit, and a gospel.
They don't come out of the woodworks with Hinduism or something that is so obviously
antithetical to God's word that it would never be received.
Satan rarely shows up if ever in red suits with horns.
They don't come out of left field saying things that are obviously and radically contradictory to the truth.
Listen to what these false teachers do in their day and hours.
They use the same terminology, but different dictionaries.
Same terminology, but different dictionaries, and as one theologian has said of old, when words lose their meaning, people lose their lives.
And Paul says it is very important that we define what we mean by Jesus and by spirit and by gospel, because clearly we are not referring to the same thing.
These false teachers are redefining
some of the most vital doctrines of the faith, and it not only has an intellectual effect, it is breaking their fellowship with God.
And it's contrary to the truth that Paul preached, and it is contrary to the very truth that transformed their lives.
Look with me in verse four.
He starts with another Jesus.
Another Jesus, one who would go by that name of sorts, a savior sort of figure, but it would not line up with the biblical truth of who Jesus Christ is and was.
We're not told what they were preaching, but maybe they were denying one particular aspect of Jesus' character or his nature and the expense of other aspects.
of Jesus' character or his nature.
Maybe they're emphasizing one aspect of Jesus to the neglect of other essential aspects or attributes of who Jesus is.
Maybe they neglect the whole of Jesus' character and personhood.
They are doing something to pollute the well so that this is not the same Jesus, but looks like he is, beware.
The will has been polluted.
I believe that a perverted Christology is and always has been the greatest threat in the Christian life throughout history.
A wrong understanding and definition of who Jesus Christ is.
And we can do this in our lives, brothers and sisters, we can deny one particular nature or aspect or attribute of who Jesus is or we can
We can pit his aspects that are in harmony together.
We can pit them against one another.
When in reality, we should assert that Jesus is both truly God and truly man.
One person, two natures.
He is both holiness and he is love.
He is transcendent and sovereign.
And yeah, he is close as a father.
He is the suffering servant.
He is the reigning king.
He was humiliated and he is also exalted.
He is the one who commands absolute obedience to the law of God and he is the one who fulfills all of the same on our behalf.
Ladies and gentlemen, we need the whole counsel of God from Genesis to Revelation because we need the whole of Jesus Christ and he is found from cover to cover.
Secondly, he says a different spirit.
a different spirit.
Now Paul has used this word to refer to a sort of posture.
There's a different spirit here.
The spirit or the posture or the attitude that a person would come with.
But this is also used by Paul to refer to the Holy Spirit.
And I don't think it's so much clarified here.
specifically what's intended, but we know that there were problems with misrepresenting the Holy Spirit in the Church of Corinth.
They were looking for a lot of hoopla, a lot of flash, a lot of bang, a lot of external mystic, mysterious experiences when the Holy Spirit came in their life.
Speaking of the attitude of the Church, the culture, the spirit of the Church,
Second Corinthians 12, 20 and 21 says it is created quarreling, can see disorder, slander, impurity, and the list goes on.
So regardless either way, if Paul's original intention, first Corinthians two says that you have received not the spirit of the world.
You've received the spirit of God so that you would freely know what God has given to us.
As a matter of fact,
Your body, Christian, individually, and us all the more collectively are temples of the Holy Spirit.
God has given us the Holy Spirit as an inheritance, chapter one and chapter five.
He says in chapter three, the Holy Spirit has written God's law on our hearts.
He gives us life in Christ.
He fills us with glory and freedom in Christ.
He transforms us, chapter three, from one degree of glory to another.
Second Corinthians six, seven, Paul says that we are to be armed with the spirit and we are to cleanse ourselves from every defilement of spirit.
We have the same spirit of faith, he says in chapter four, verse 13.
So as the scripture is written, we believe so we spoke.
This is why first John says that in our discernment as believers, we are to test the spirits.
Do they confess that Jesus Christ is Lord?
Does this spirit align itself with all of the truths and principles of God's Word be discerning?
Thirdly, Paul lays out to complete this trio a different gospel, a different gospel.
The gospel refers to the royal announcement.
of a king's victory or of a king's coronation.
It's the good news.
And in light of the New Testament, that word would come to refer to the good news that Jesus Christ had defeated sin and death and Satan.
And he had extended and applied salvation to all who will repent and believe the gospel to cast themselves before the mercy of God and trust by faith in Jesus Christ alone.
And Paul says that now what's being propagated is a gospel nonetheless, but it is a different gospel altogether.
Paul does not name these detractors.
All he says, if you'll look with me in verses four and then in five, is if someone.
So the question is,
who is the someone?
And the answer to that question has fulfilled volumes of commentaries.
Some believe that these false teachers, just as we see in Galatians, are Judaizers.
They're Jews who come mentioning Jesus, but trying to entangle Christians back into the Old Testament ceremonial laws and circumcision and dietary laws
as if you have to be Jewish and with Jesus, which is a complete denial of justification by faith alone.
Now, it would appear, if you'll look with me in chapter 11, verse 22, that there is an insistence on the right Jewish pedigree.
So there could be this influence.
Some believe that the false teachers are Gnostics who had promoted the idea that physical recreation is bad in and of itself,
And salvation comes by releasing the Spirit from the body, which would only happen through some elite specialized knowledge, mysterious to most and available only to the few, which was in its seed form when John is writing in 1 John.
Others believe that its envoys from the Jerusalem church are various Hellenists and Greeks and others.
Yeah, others argue, and I believe the evidence lands more squarely here from what we know, in that these false teachers are those who throughout second Corinthians are assuming authority to themselves.
They're constantly emphasizing the power and authority that they have.
They're speaking of exaltation.
And in the meanwhile, they're exalting themselves.
They're self boasting.
And there seems to be a complete denial of suffering and weakness and humility and humiliation, not only in Jesus Christ, but in the Christian life.
In summary, it appears that they are preaching the crown without the cross.
And Paul continues to come back to the truth that the Christian is triumphant and Jesus Christ is reigning.
But he is also a suffering servant who endures humiliation and suffering and so will his servants.
Ladies and gentlemen, the principle of the Christian life exemplified in our Savior is that humiliation always comes before exaltation, suffering always before glory.
And yet,
Paul says on one hand, 1 Corinthians 1, 23, we preach Jesus Christ crucified as a suffering servant.
And yet at the same time, 2 Corinthians 4, 5, we also preach Jesus Christ as a Lord of glory.
He says in both weakness and in power, for no one can lay a foundation other than that which is laid, Jesus Christ.
So don't walk off the foundation.
build on the one from the apostles in Holy Scripture.
Look with me in verse four, Paul says, you put up with it another foundation.
The King James says, you have no problem bearing with it.
It could read acceptably or beautifully.
And he'll say later that you have no problem putting up with people who take advantage of you.
putting out with people who tolerating people who pervert primary doctrines and preach an entirely different gospel.
What is wrong with you people?
Look with me in Galatians chapter 1.
Turn with me and your Bibles 2.
Maybe, maybe not a different context, hard to say, but a very, very similar language that Paul uses in Galatians chapter 1 verse 6.
He writes to Galatia, totally fast forwards past any opportunity for encouragement.
And he goes right for the throat.
And he rebukes them right out of the gate in Galatians chapter one, verse six.
And he says this, I am astonished that you are so quickly deserting him.
committing treason against the one who called you in the grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel, a different good news, a different means of salvation.
Not that there is another one, let's clarify.
There's not another true one.
Jesus Christ is the only one who can forgive your sins and the gospel of Christ is the only way to be made right with God and be in heaven.
But there are some who trouble you and want to distort the gospel of Christ.
And Paul is so clear, hear it loud, Mormons, and hear it loud, any and everybody else.
But even if we, or an angel from heaven, should preach to you a gospel contrary to the one we preach to you, don't buy it and let the curse of God be on his head.
As we have said before, so now I say again, if anyone
If let me make it clear in case I haven't already, if anyone is preaching to you, a gospel contrary to the one you received, let him be twicely a curse.
Paul is so clear.
First Timothy four speaks of deceitful spirits and teachings of demons who forbid marriage and food and everything God created for good.
Test the spirits.
with God's word.
Look with me in chapter 11 verse 5, turn back to 2 Corinthians 11, Paul continues in this matter of deception and he says, indeed, I consider that I am not in the least inferior to these super apostles.
Super apostles.
The King James says, chiefist apostles,
The new American standard says imminent apostles.
The ESV super apostles.
It simply refers to the superlative apostles.
Now, it's one thing to be an apostle.
And I used to think that was the idea.
When I went to Africa, everyone was an apostle on a billboard doing a conference.
But now, if that's not enough, a superlative apostle.
So the question in 2 Corinthians is who in the world are these super apostles?
The better question is, who do they think they are?
Now, on one hand, Paul is very clear in 1 Timothy.
He says, I am the foremost of sinners.
In 1 Corinthians, he says, I am the least of all the apostles.
Some believe that he's referring here by these super apostles.
Maybe Peter, James and John, the inner core, or maybe the leaders of the Jerusalem church, or maybe just the imminent apostles, not just messengers, but capital A apostles the 12th.
But I think it's more likely that Paul is saying, yes, I am the least of the apostles, one untimely born after the fact.
But an apostle nonetheless, and I think he is asserting, I am not inferior to these guys who think they are super apostles and in fact are not.
Because they seem to be asserting that these super apostles are skilled in speaking, if you look in verse six, as well as in knowledge, but the early apostles were known on the street as ordinary untrained men.
themselves not trained in rhetoric or in speaking.
So I believe these super apostles are more likely fake apostles, preaching the different gospel that was just referred to.
I believe it's those who profess to know God, but deny him by their works.
Claiming to be super apostles, 2 Corinthians 3, 1, claiming all of the right credentials.
But 2 Corinthians 4-2 says they are fraudsters.
They are wolves and sheep's clothing.
Don't buy it for a second.
Now everyone believes that when it's Joel Osteen or some more well-known preacher that you have no personal connections with, but what about when it's someone that you know and love and you have personal connections and relationships with, then that changes things, doesn't it?
It's easy just to name
any number of distant preachers who propagate the gospel so that they can get more money in jets and influence in platforms.
But what about when they infiltrated the church and you broke bread with them and they become friends with you?
So you have to understand in core rent, this is a very difficult issue because they had gotten to know these people.
And clearly they are
asserting, if not at least acting like, super apostles.
Look with me in chapter 12 verse 11.
I had been a fool.
You forced me to it.
For I ought to have been commended by you.
For I was not at all again inferior to these super apostles, even though really on nothing the signs of a true apostle of which Paul was were performed among you with utmost patience, with signs and wonders and mighty works.
So Paul had displayed his apostolic calling, and Jesus says, my sheep hear my voice, and they follow me, and they will not follow another, at least not for long.
Galatians two puts it this way, and from those who seem to be influential.
And then Paul writes, now what they were makes no difference to me.
God chose no partiality.
They had this huge platform of influence.
They seemed to be very influential.
They had a lot of followers.
But then Paul's very clear, like, what they really were, I could care less.
God knows the truth.
He'll sort that out.
Those I say who seemed influential added nothing to me.
Turn back with me to 2 Corinthians, chapter 11, verse 6.
Paul says, even if I am unskilled and speaking, it appears that they're demeaning him because of his lack
of training and rhetoric.
I am not so unskilled in knowledge.
Indeed, in every way, we have made this plane to you in all things.
We've wrote it out.
We've spelled it.
We've proved it.
You want me to write it backwards?
What else is left for me to do?
Paul confesses, he agrees with his detractors that he is unskilled and speaking.
Now Paul was not uneducated.
He had trained access with one of the leading Jewish scholars of the day.
He met face to face with Jesus Christ.
He received direct revelation from God.
Paul was trained.
But all throughout first and second Corinthians, he repeats this idea
which they're clearly accusing him to the contrary of.
In 2 Corinthians 10, 10, his speech is of no account.
Paul says, I didn't come to you with eloquent words.
I didn't come to you with lofty speech.
Words taught by human wisdom, unintelligible speech.
Over and over he uses this language throughout 1st and 2nd Corinthians.
He's not demeaning the idea.
of learning how to speak well, learning how to speak clearly.
I don't even believe he's demeaning rhetoric altogether.
I don't believe that he's demeaning the idea of learning how to be persuasive and edifying and powerful and understanding in your speech.
What he is cutting against is these false teachers who prided themselves
and putting all of their star in the training of Greek rhetoric.
And so what they would do is they would seek to become the best and most skillful of speakers.
And they would even play a game from what I've studied.
to where they would take the silliest of things that are clearly not true, but see if they could speak so persuasively, appealing to the mind, grabbing the emotions, turning the wheel, and they would see how well they could make something, someone believed something that was so clearly out in left field and not true.
It was a game of showmanship.
And Paul is saying, sure, I lag the polish of a skilled rhetorician who waxes eloquently with compelling arguments, who comes with showiness and arrogance, but has little regard for the truth.
It's like a trial lawyer who's more concerned with winning a case than he is getting at the truth.
It's like a showman who has an ulterior agenda that he's pressing forward.
It's like a preacher that seeks to row you up in emotion, maybe even firing you up with this logic.
But it's an empty shell with nothing underneath it.
And what can happen even in today's church is that people can begin to rest their faith in the personality of a winsome public speaker, even a pastor.
Instead of their faith resting in the cross of Jesus Christ, and this Paul says is one of his most explicit fears in their Christian life.
Our faith does not rest in the messenger, but in the message.
Paul says my intent is not to come with flamboyant, flowery language designed to impress the hearer,
And see if he can persuade him of nearly everything.
Paul says, my intent is to come clearly with truth.
Was it plain on the bottom shelf so that everyone can understand?
I want it to be clear.
One of the greatest compliments that you can give a pastor is not, wow, that was so deep.
I never would have read my Bible and saw that.
which makes you wonder if it's really there to begin with.
Wow, I still don't understand that.
Now, one of the greatest compliments that you can give a preacher is the message was crystal clear.
Now, I hated every single bit of it and will probably fire you before you get to preach it again, but buddy, it was clear, crystal clear.
And Paul goes on if you'll look with me in verse six and he says,
that is not unskilled in knowledge.
2 Corinthians 2 says, he has been spreading the knowledge of Jesus Christ everywhere.
That knowledge, chapter 4, verse 6 says, is found in the face and glory of Jesus Christ.
He's armed with knowledge.
Ephesians 1 says, you, when you read this, can perceive my insight into the mystery
and the knowledge of Jesus Christ.
So for 18 months, he taught them God's Word, the whole counsel of God.
So what can you trust?
Look with me in 2 Corinthians 11, 4th lay and finally, but we're nowhere near done.
You can trust a ministry of humble sacrificial service.
What can you trust?
Look with me in verse seven.
Paul says, or did I commit a sin and humbling myself so that you might be exalted?
He fires a train of rhetorical questions at them that have obvious answers because I preach God's gospel to you free of charge.
The Bible says, if we humble ourselves before the Lord,
He will exalt us in his own time.
It seems that these false teachers are demeaning Paul because he refuses to receive financial compensation from the church.
And so the question here is why did Paul refuse to receive financial support from the church?
Paul has addressed this matter quite often, dedicating all of 1 Corinthians 9 to this.
1 Timothy 5, 17 is very clear that those who labor hard in preaching and teaching are worthy of double honor, which includes compensation.
He walks through all of 1 Corinthians 9.
He's just spent two chapters trying to take a financial offering to send to other needy saints.
So why is Paul humbling himself refusing to receive any compensation from the church?
Well, it could be as we often practice in missions today that he wanted the church to be more established.
He didn't want the community to pay for their own salvation.
Other churches would send him out, support him, and then when the church got established, they would learn then to support themselves as a biblically ordered church.
The problem is that by now you would expect this church to have been established.
Now, Matt, I don't know who their music leader was, but the Apostle Paul was their pastor.
And he had already addressed this matter quite extensively firsthand, making numerous visits writing mini letters.
Money comes up more times in these letters than you can count.
and he waits until chapter eight before he really begins to speak of receiving money.
And even then, that was surrounded by accountability to send to another church in need.
I believe because of verses like 2 Corinthians 4-2, where he refers to hucksters, that Paul is refusing to receive support because he does not want to be identified
within the specific fiasco of this church with youngsters who would come in and truly were in it just for the money.
He refuses to identify with their underhanded disgraceful cunning ways.
And he wants nothing to do with that.
And certainly there has been a smear campaign launched against Paul.
And he knew that in Titus 1 and in 1 Timothy 3, I don't know, mainly because he wrote it, that the qualification for an elder is that he can't be greedy.
And Paul wasn't greedy, but because there were such pressing concerns in this church and so many accusations thrown against him, it appears that the accusation being leveled at him seems to be among many others.
You can't trust him.
He's just in it for the money.
And Paul seems to be saying, I haven't received a dime from you.
Turn with me in your Bible to 1 Corinthians, chapter 9.
1 Corinthians, chapter 9.
He's already spoken to this if you'll look with me in verse 9.
which if you were with us several years ago, we've walked all the way through from beginning to end, word by word.
But by way of reminder, 1 Corinthians 9, 9, he says, for it is written in the law of Moses, you shall not muzzle an ox when it treads out the grain.
Is it for oxen that God is concerned?
In other words, he uses the Old Testament law and he says, aren't animals even compensated for their labor?
And then he applies it to the New Testament church in verse 10 and says, the plowman should plow in hope and the thresh your thresh in hope of sharing in the crawl.
If we have sound spiritual things among you, is it too much if we read material things from you?
If others share this rifle claim on you, do we not even more meaning as apostles, fathers of this church?
And then he says, nevertheless, we have not made use of this right, but we endure anything rather than put an obstacle in the way of the gospel of Christ.
And in some sense, in this situation, that would clearly put an obstacle in their path because the church is so toxic with false teachers, verse 15.
But Paul says, I have made no use of any of these rights.
Boy, do we love to insist on our rights.
And Paul says, I was willing to wave and refrain from my rights when it was good for the body of Christ.
And to be clear, don't you love this parenthetical note in verse 15, nor am I writing these things to secure any provision.
Paul is very clear, like this is not some underhanded way of saying, you should pay me more.
And if I could ride Paul's coattails, because this is so uncomfortable for me to preach on, could I just make clear, this is also not some weird way for me asking for a raise, you already take care of me so well, I'm thankful, so let's just put that to bed.
For I would rather
Die, Paul says, then have anyone deprive me of my ground for boasting.
Ground for boasting that I mistreated no one.
I took advantage of no one.
I laid my life down in serving the bride of Christ.
And yet it appears that these false teachers seem to be treating him as if he's an illegitimate minister and a second-rate pastor
because he refuses to receive compensation as maybe they do.
Maybe they're saying that Paul is worth about as much as he charges for his work, both of which are nothing.
You can't listen to him.
He doesn't have the right credentials.
Now, another problem common today
And it could have been the case in Paul's life.
Maybe he didn't want to be in debt to the church, overly dependent on the church.
Now, it's certainly not a problem in our church, but I will tell you a problem in many churches.
When churches pay their pastors, they also censor the message that the pastors preach.
When you're dependent on the income, you have to be careful what you do and don't say.
because you could lose your livelihood.
So you begin to take incremental steps to edit God and censor the message.
And ladies and gentlemen, I could not sleep at night under such circumstances.
Now that support also provides accountability for a pastor, which is good, but nonetheless, in Acts 18, Paul made clear
that he was a tent maker by trade.
Now pay or no pay, I do want to assert that generally speaking, unless you have a very small church, in many circumstances, I think it's good to have full-time leadership in the life of a church because it is a joy and you make it a joy.
But let me tell you something, it is also a full-time work.
And Paul is giving full-time service.
So the question is, if Corinth isn't supporting him, and he's giving himself full-time intent-making could never provide for what he needed, at least at this point in his life, if not others, Paul is single, so he just has
himself to provide for, though some believe he was married at some point.
Nonetheless, the question is who was providing for him?
Look with me in 2 Corinthians 11, 8.
Chapter 11, verse 8, Paul says, I robbed other churches by accepting support from them in order to serve you.
And when I was with you and was in need, I didn't burden anyone.
And how was he able to do that for the brothers who came from Macedonia supplied my need?
So I refrained and will refrain from burdening you in any way.
Paul reiterates in chapter 12, I did not want to be a burden on you.
Boy, many people in the world today have no problem being a burden on other people.
Just ask the Somalians in Minnesota, which is just one parable of a much larger issue.
And these false teachers seem to be clearly weighing down the church.
And Paul says, I didn't want to be a burden on you in any way.
Now, he could be referring to a financial burden, but that wouldn't make quite as much sense, because Chorans seem to be a bit more fluent.
Paul's coming back and forth, and they're providing for him in other ways.
If you look back in 2 Corinthians 8, the Bible says the Macedonians are living in stinging poverty, and even in their poverty,
They're sending money to support the needy saints in Jerusalem.
And not only are they doing that, but out of their poverty, they're supplying Paul's needs to preach the gospel instead of chlorine doing it.
Now, brothers and sisters don't get the wrong idea because some of you will be tempted to say, well, I just don't want to burden the church.
How many of you have ever said that, be honest, I just don't want to burden the church?
And you know what?
I don't want to burden the church.
I want to be an asset, not a liability.
I want to breed life into the church.
But brothers and sisters, I want to remind you, at the same time, the Bible says we are to bear one another's burdens.
Pastor, I'm going through a hard time.
I'm sorry to call you.
What do you mean sorry to call me?
This is what I live for.
This is what you live for, to bear one another's burdens, to live one another's weight, to double our joys and divide our sorrows.
But Paul may be referring to the burden of a fiasco created
by these hucksters in the church in the smear campaign.
Look with me in 2 Corinthians 12, verse 14, again, he says, and I will not be a burden.
He says, for children are not obligated to save up for their parents, but parents for their children.
I will most gladly spend and be spent for your souls.
If I love you more, am I to be loved less?
So the word,
In 2 Corinthians 11, 8, Rob, it could refer to pillaging.
It's used when in a military context, a dead soldier would be stripped of everything he had, and the opposing army would take his armor from him.
So as Paul's saying, I'm a thief, I robbed other churches.
Is Paul admitting that he's had his hand in the cookie jar?
No, it's hyperbolic language.
in order to make a very strong point.
This church should have been supporting its own work and yet that couldn't happen.
So I have received support from other churches to do ministry that did not directly impact and bless them in order to supply your needs so that I could live above reproach.
Macedonia would be to the north at Kia in the south where Corinth was a capital city.
Listen, at one point Philippians 4, 15, and you Philippians yourselves know that in the beginning of the gospel, when I love Macedonia, no church entered into partnership with me and giving and receiving except you only.
Even in Thessalonica, you sent me help for my needs once and again.
And he says, not that I seek the gift, it's not about the money.
I seek the fruit that comes from the ministry.
He insinuates increasing to your credit.
So what a beautiful example from the Macedonians and the Philippians to support work outside of themselves and brothers and sisters.
That's what you do as a church.
as we support missionaries who go out for the sake of God's name, as we support and bless other pastors and churches as opportunity arises, as we bless other ministries.
Just as 3 John 7 says, for they have gone out for the sake of the name, accepting nothing from the Gentiles.
Therefore, we ought to support people like these that we may be fellow workers for the truth.
So we should support fellow workers that we're in the saddle with, even when it does not directly benefit the ministry of this church, it extends the kingdom of God and we're all on the same team.
Look with me in 2 Corinthians 11, 10, Paul says, as the truth of Christ is in me.
He uses that phrase,
in many other places.
And he comes back to this word that he uses over and over and over this boasting of mine.
The false teachers boast to exalt themselves and parade themselves.
Listen, no one likes a person that can only speak of themselves.
And Paul says this boasting of mine will not be silenced in the regions of a chaos because Paul is not boasting in himself
He's boasting in the evidences of God's grace in the church, and he's boasting of his calling before God and the ministry to which God's called him, and he is boasting not in all of his fancy credentials.
Paul will go on in chapter 11 to boast that he has sacrificially laid his life down for the church with absolutely nothing to gain in return.
Friends, that's the sort of people around you that you can trust who humble themselves before God and are selfishly, sacrificially serving the people of God, the body of Christ and the people around them without intent for selfish gain.
10 times in chapter 11, Paul boast of his humble, pure service before the Lord.
And finally in verse 11, he says, and why?
Why do I sacrifice myself on the altar of God's servant for your sake?
And again, he says in verse 11, 11, because I do not love you.
Is this why I do this?
That's what you assume.
And then he says, God knows I do.
of a passionate response.
God knows the truth of the matter.
He knows my heart and he knows that I love you.
Even if no one else is willing to be called to witness, God has proven his love through this church, through Paul's ministry, and his God himself loves his bride.
is concerned for her spiritual deception.
And as Paul puts forward faithful ministry before this church, she's called back to what we found last week, a sincere and pure devotion to Jesus Christ.
May you this morning recommit yourself to the one that you have been bound to.
May God give us wisdom and discernment to know and love Christ and to give and receive in faithful ministry.
There's so many matters going on in our world today, in your family today, in our community today.
But let's not leave here before we get to the heart of the matter.
Are you walking in a sincere, a single-minded and pure or holy or blameless devotion to Jesus Christ?
Is that your heart?
Are you squirming because you can't wait to get out of here?
Is your mind racing distracted by other things?
Are there allurements?
that are threatening to pull you away from the center that is here.
Ladies and gentlemen, I want to warn you and myself and all of us, if you pull that thread that lies in the middle of the sweater, you will pull the rest of the sweater.
This is the thread that's the engine in the heartbeat to the entire operation, sincere
and pure devotion to Christ.
Father, we love you and we thank you that you've loved us and we pray that you would bless and refresh and keep your people, that we would be faithful to you and all of the responsibilities and vocations and mission that you've given to us.
Make us wise, give us discernment and change our hearts.
In Jesus' name we pray, amen.